@node  Kroute Protocol
@appendix Kroute Protocol
@appendixsection Overview of the Kroute Protocol

Kroute Protocol is used by protocol daemons to communicate with the
kroute daemon.

Each protocol daemon may request and send information to and from the
kroute daemon such as interface states, routing state,
nexthop-validation, and so on. Protocol daemons may also install routes
with kroute. The kroute daemon manages which route is installed into the
forwarding table with the kernel.

Kroute Protocol is a streaming protocol, with a common header. Two
versions of the header are in use. Version 0 is implicitely versioned.
Version 1 has an explicit version field. Version 0 can be distinguished
from all other versions by examining the 3rd byte of the header, which
contains a marker value for all versions bar version 0. The marker byte
corresponds to the command field in version 0, and the marker value is
a reserved command in version 0.

We do not anticipate there will be further versions of the header for
the foreseeable future, as the command field in version 1 is wide
enough to allow for future extensions to done compatibly through
seperate commands.

Version 0 is used by all versions of GNU Kroute as of this writing, and
versions of Bane up to and including Bane 0.98. Version 1 will be
used as of Bane 1.0.

@appendixsection Kroute Protocol Definition
@appendixsubsec Kroute Protocol Header (version 0)
@example
@group
0                   1                   2                   3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-------------------------------+---------------+
|           Length (2)          |   Command (1) |
+-------------------------------+---------------+
@end group
@end example

@appendixsubsec Kroute Protocol Common Header (version 1)
@example
@group
0                   1                   2                   3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-------------------------------+---------------+-------------+
|           Length (2)          |   Marker (1)  | Version (1) |
+-------------------------------+---------------+-------------+
|          Command (2)          |
+-------------------------------+
@end group
@end example

@appendixsubsec Kroute Protocol Header Field Definitions
@table @samp
@item Length
Total packet length including this header. The minimum length is 3
bytes for version 0 messages and 6 bytes for version 1 messages.

@item Marker
Static marker with a value of 255 always. This is to allow version 0
Zserv headers (which do not include version explicitely) to be
distinguished from versioned headers. Not present in version 0
messages.

@item Version
Version number of the Zserv message. Clients should not continue
processing messages past the version field for versions they do not
recognise. Not present in version 0 messages.

@item Command
The Kroute Protocol command.
@end table

@appendixsubsec Kroute Protocol Commands
@multitable {KROUTE_REDISTRIBUTE_DEFAULT_DELETE_WHATEVER} {99999}
@headitem Command @tab Value
@item KROUTE_INTERFACE_ADD	
@tab 1
@item KROUTE_INTERFACE_DELETE
@tab 2
@item KROUTE_INTERFACE_ADDRESS_ADD
@tab 3
@item KROUTE_INTERFACE_ADDRESS_DELETE
@tab 4
@item KROUTE_INTERFACE_UP
@tab 5
@item KROUTE_INTERFACE_DOWN
@tab 6
@item KROUTE_IPV4_ROUTE_ADD
@tab 7
@item KROUTE_IPV4_ROUTE_DELETE
@tab 8
@item KROUTE_IPV6_ROUTE_ADD
@tab 9
@item KROUTE_IPV6_ROUTE_DELETE
@tab 10
@item KROUTE_REDISTRIBUTE_ADD
@tab 11
@item KROUTE_REDISTRIBUTE_DELETE
@tab 12
@item KROUTE_REDISTRIBUTE_DEFAULT_ADD
@tab 13
@item KROUTE_REDISTRIBUTE_DEFAULT_DELETE
@tab 14
@item KROUTE_IPV4_NEXTHOP_LOOKUP
@tab 15
@item KROUTE_IPV6_NEXTHOP_LOOKUP
@tab 16
@end multitable
